[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: We briefly touched on by
reference and by value, what that means,
have you guys heard that term before?
Has anyone not heard
that term by reference or
by value before, passed by reference,
passed by value?
Okay, we're good on that front?
So we're gonna talk about === versus ==,
let's observe,
we have this code on the left side.
We have two strings or
two pointers to two primitive strings but
they're the same string the same
you know actual string.
Then we're gonna do
a comparison str1===str2.
What this is going to do in memory,
you can see here on our right side
we have our n str 1 and 2 pointers.
They're pointing to our two primitive
strings of memory, the first one in 2001,
and the second one in 2101.
What this is gonna do is it's gonna
find those two primitives in memory and
compare the actual values that those have.
This is what we call comparison by value
I guess, when we're passing by value,
it's gonna look at the actual value
that's held at those locations.
So, this will compare those two,
does hi equal hi?
That's true, so ===,
this will return TRUE.
Question?
Interjection.
Come on in.
>> Speaker 2: Interjection,
a little qualification here.
The two strings very likely would
only be one string in memory.
This is this is a rule of, we like to
say that every time a string is created,
a string object is created in memory,
right?
But in reality,
JavaScript interpreters probably,
it'll only probably create one string.
Is again, just our rule of thumb
versus what happens in reality.
Primitive types like strings are,
you could almost think that there's
only one hi ever created in reality.
But, I think it's better to actually
think like they're both created and
that there's gonna be
a comparison like this.
Cuz there could be two hi
that's created in some,
there's there's nothing preventing
the language from doing that,
just what happens in most browsers
would only create one hi in this case.
>> Alexis Abril: Be sure.
>> Speaker 2: We don't think about
per load just the weird thing is like
primitives, is they're both
passed by reference and
passed by value in some place.
Because you can't
actually modify a string,
you can't restate a string like hey,
change this second bit of a hi,
or six inches second byte
of a hi to a capital I.
You can actually do that and
keep the same string in memory.
You'll just get back a brand new string.
So the reality of primitive types
like this is much more complex.
There's a lot to learn there but
again I just wanna say the rule of thumbs
that we're giving will
get you the right answer,
just there's a lot of optimizations
underneath the coding.
>> Alexis Abril: Yes, yes.
>> Speaker 2: You could learn about,
but there's really only if you're
a geek do you need to learn about it.
>> Alexis Abril: Be sure I know we
mentioned that just with the discussion of
the VA developer, that's where
this all really was born from.
Is we had a core VA developer who was
like no this is, we would never do this,
this is so inefficient,
we just create what is hi.
We'll be sure to post that
just because it's there.
It's a really good discussion where you
have someone with intimate knowledge
when the core team members over VA talking
about how they set this stuff up in
the real world.
Not in our we're learning how to
create a browser world, so cool.
Okay now this is with primitives.
With objects, it's gonna do things
just a little bit different.
So we have obj1 is this empty object,
obj2 is empty object,
we have pointers to their
respective addresses in memory.
And from, at face value,
I would do the same thing.
I would say hey these objects have the
same actual structure, they have the same
values, they're both empty in this case,
they should result to equal.
But because they are composite types,
what this is gonna do,
is it's going to check by reference,
it's gonna check the actual address
of where these objects are in memory.
And since these are two different objects,
two new objects created in memory,
they have two different addresses.
We're not going to go through and
check all of its attributes.
We're just gonna say,
are you at the same spot?
You're not, you must be two different
things, this is gonna return false.
>> Speaker 3: Can you give
that same example using a ==,
like how the memory works?
>> Alexis Abril: Yes I can but,
I can also, come on,
second time's the charm.
>> Alexis Abril: I can show you
what would happen in a == scenario.
So that was ===,
triple equals in a primitive case,
we're gonna compare the values
at the two addresses.
In a composite case when compared the
addresses of what's a left or right side.
What happens in a == case?
This is the the logical path that
a == comparison is going to take.
You're gonna take
the left == the right and
it's going to run through each
of these in order to produce,
recursively to produce,
some type of end result.
So let's talk about this.
Rather than take the two objects,
let's do something really weird.
Let's take that crazy case
where we had a boolean
compared to an object with a toString.
We used a valueOf in the example we're
gonna use a toString in this example,
returning our 1.
Why this returns true?
So let's walk through this.
The first thing we're gonna
come to is we're gonna say hey,
are these two types the same?
In this case they're not,
one is a boolean, one's an object.
So it's gonna say no.
So the next step is gonna
say hey are both null or
undefined and see and say no that's
not that's not the case we're at yet.
Do we have a string being
compared to a number?
Again false.
Do we have a boolean being
compared to anything?
This is a condition we can pass like
okay now we're on the right track.
Let's pass this into our
little state machine, and
we're convert our Boolean true,
it's gonna spit out a 1.
That's the only thing that we can
really do in the state machine.
We're gonna take true,
we're gonna convert it to a 1.
And then we're going to recursively
call the same == comparison,
except now we're gonna say 1 compared
to the object toString, function 1.
Then we start this whole machine
over again, are the types the same?
Nope, are they both null or
undefined, still not there yet,
do have a string equal to a number?
Not quite,
do we have boolean equal to anything?
No, we're gonna get to go
one level deeper this time.
Do we have an object equal to a string or
a number?
Yes this is the case we're at.
So what we're going to do
is in a call toString or
a valueOf, we happen to have
a toString method on our object.
And we're gonna compare the number or
string, our case is a number to whatever
is returned from these methods.
So now we are gonna get 1
== "1" because we happened
to pass an object with a toString function
when invoked will return a string 1.
This is our clever little trick.
We're gonna start the whole
process over with 1 == "1".
Are the types the same?
Still no, both null or undefined?
Do have a string equal to a number?
Yes, so now we're gonna go
back to our state machine and
what we're gonna do you can see down
here at the bottom we have a string.
We're gonna convert the string to
either a number or not a number.
In this case the string 1
can be converted to a 1,
so we're gonna get 1 == 1.
We're not done yet, we have to
start the whole mission over again.
1 == 1, are the types the same?
Yes, call === internally.
That's what this machine is gonna do and
eventually, now 1 === 1.
It's gonna do the comparisons and
say yeah you're the same thing.
Finally, after I measure
how my slides that was
to get through this
machine that many times.
This is why it's a performance hit.
And why you're gonna get
unexpected behavior.
Expected if you have this kind of
memorized and internalized, which I don't.
But still gonna be, you don't wanna
base any kind of validation or
any kind of condition
logic at all on this.
This is exactly why you don't use ==.
The performance footprint of a ===,
this is the graph.
Are the types the same?
Yes or no, if they're not saying
that is false, stops right there.
These types are the same
is it a primitive?
Compare the values, not compare
the addresses and then you're done.
This is complex as it's going to get for
===.
== is that crazy state machine
to answer your question.
>> Speaker 4: So
would you never use the ==?
>> Alexis Abril: I never use the ==,
ever, do you use ==?
>> Speaker 4: When I want to
compare null to undefined.
That's a good place [CROSSTALK] So
they don't have the write.
>> Alexis Abril: Even try to write it out
in the type of you know the one you've
already.
>> Speaker 4: So
what you're going to [CROSSTALK].
No I want to write Foo === null or
Foo === undefined.
It's just nicer to write Foo == null or
undefined, right?
Then you get both.
>> Speaker 4: And you'll see that in a lot
of libraries, it's kinda an accepted.
There's an exception in JSLint or
something for doing that.
>> Alexis Abril: A flag,
you mean for allowing it.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, yeah.